Hi, guys, and this lesson I'm going to teach you about two different features of free ones called
multiple upload, and the other is called transfer acceleration, and both of these are around uploading
objects to as free.
So how do we do it most efficiently?
So let's start with multiple upload.
This uploads objects in parts independently, in parallel and in any order.
So in other words, you can split your files, your big files into multiple parts, and then you can
upload them in parallel for greater efficiency.
This is performed using the S3 multiple upload API, and it's recommended for any objects that exceed
100 megabytes in size.
It can be used for any objects from five megabytes right up to five terabytes, and it must be used
for any objects that are larger than five gigabytes.
Now, you don't need to go through the implementation for this exam, but it's just useful to understand
that this exists, how it works and what the advantages are.
So the key is it's about breaking your big files into parts.
Remember that for anything over 100 megabytes, it's recommended to do it this way.
And the key benefit is about optimization of throughput because you're sending your parts in parallel
also means that if you have your application written correctly, you can recover from failed parts quite
easily as well and retransmit them.
So next, we have a free transfer acceleration now.
Transfer acceleration is about using the Amazon Cloud Front Edge locations to improve the performance
of transfers from a client to an ice free bucket.
Now, cloud front is a topic that we're going to cover a bit later on in the course.
It's a content delivery network.
And what that means is it tries to get content closer to users by caching it in locations around the
world, and those locations are known as edge locations.
So Cloud Front has a network as soon as you get to the edge location from wherever you are.
So hopefully wherever you are in the world, there should be an edge location somewhere relatively close.
So the licensee isn't too high to get to the edge location from the edge location.
The data traverses the IWC global network, which has great throughput and low latency.
So performance should be better.
Now it's not guaranteed, it's going to be better, but it might be.
So let's say you've got some users somewhere in the world and they're a long way away from where your
actual bucket is.
Your bucket might be a UX one, and maybe your clients are in Australia trying to upload some large
files if they make the upload using transfer acceleration.
It's going to be uploaded to an edge location nearby and then traverse the global network, which should
be faster.
So let's say it dies grammatically.
We've got a bucket.
We've got an application and we've got an edge location somewhere in the world.
In our example, that might be in Australia, but the bucket is in US east.
So the application uploads the file to the edge location, and from there it traverses the global network.
Now, with transfer acceleration, the endpoint is slightly different.
So as you can see, it's got the S3 dash accelerating it.
Eight of us will only charge you for using transfer acceleration if there's a performance improvement.
So you do get charged extra, but only if you've actually got an advantage by using transfer acceleration.
You enable transfer acceleration at the bucket level.
Watch out for exam questions where a company is looking to improve the speed of uploading from a very
remote location somewhere far away from the bucket in that case.
Uploads can be accelerated using transfer acceleration.